\chapter{Specifications}

The application developed for this workgroup task is a tool for
\standout{automated testing of financial trading strategies}.

The application allows the user to define a strategy and the test it with the
historical price action data of various markets. The user can then visualize
statistics on the performance of the strategy.

The \standout{User}, when logged-in, can write a new trading strategy using the
Java programming language: the user must create a Java class implementing a
method that receives in input the price action of the asset (the method is
called once for every trading day\footnote{A trading day is a time span for
which the price action, during that time span, is aggregated into four values:
highest, lowest, opening (the price at the start of the day) and closing (the
price at the end of the day) prices.}, giving in input the highest, lowest,
opening and closing price for that day, and it must respond each time with a
buy/sell/do-nothing decision). Then, through the application, the user selects a
market, the amount to invest and the time interval of the trading day. Then, the
application will apply the defined strategy to all the historical data available
for that market.  After that, the application shows:

\begin{itemize}
	\item The net profit or loss;
	\item The gross profit \idest{the sum of the profits from all winning
		trades} and the gross lost;
	\item The total number of trades concluded by the strategy;
	\item The average amount of money involved in trades;
	\item The average duration of a trade (in terms of trading days);
	\item The percent of winning (profitable) and losing trades;
	\item The maximum number of consecutive losing trades;
	\item The maximum drawback \idest{the maximum loss from consecutive
		losing trades};
	\item A graph of the evolution of the invested amount during time.
\end{itemize}

For the development of strategies, the application provides a library for easily
compute common statistics over market data \exgratia{moving averages, standard
deviations, common indicators like the Relative Strength Index, Moving Average
Convergence/Divergence, Bollinger Bands margins, \etc}.

The application allows the user to display assets in different sort order (top
gainers, top losers, largest volume, \etc).

The \standout{Administrator} can:

\begin{itemize}
	\item Add/remove users;
	\item Enable/disable data sources;
	\item Delete old or no-more-relevant data;
	\item Change various parameters for each data source \exgratia{API keys,
		data granularity, markets};
	\item Regenerate the data, re-downloading it from configured data
		sources;
	\item Enable/disable the download in streaming of new data;
	\item Enable/disable markets for selection by users.
\end{itemize}
